# CS303-Reverse-Reversi-Game-AI
## A. Problem Description
Reversed Reversi is a relatively simple board game. Players take turns placing disks on the board with their assigned color facing up. During a play, any disk of the opponent’s color that are in a straight line and bounded by the disk just placed and another discs of the current player’s color are turned over to the current player’s color. The object of the game is to have the fewest discs turned to display your color when the last playable empty square is filled. The goal of the project is to implement the AI algorithm of Reversed Reversi according to the interface requirements, pass the usability testing and try to rank higher in the round robin.
## B. Software and Hardware
The project is developed using PyCharm as integrated development environment based on Python language. The local testing platform is Windows 10 Professional Edition with Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-10700K CPU @ 3.80GHz of 8 cores and 16 threads. The training platform is one node in Taiyi cluster with 2 Xeon Gold 6148 CPU @ 2.4GHz of 20 cores. The course testing platform is Xeon Gold 6240 @ 2.6GHz.
## C. Algorithms
The project algorithms include Minimax Search, Alpha-Beta Pruning and Genetic Algorithm [1]. Minimax Search is a decision rule used in artificial intelligence, decision theory, game theory, statistics, and philosophy for minimizing the possible loss for a worst case (maximum loss) scenario [2]. Alpha-Beta Pruning is a search algorithm that seeks to decrease the number of nodes that are evaluated by the Minimax algorithm in its search tree, which is an adversarial search algorithm used commonly for machine playing of two-player games. I use the Minimax Search with Alpha-Beta Pruning to do the decision in the Reversed Reversi Game. Although Alpha-Beta Pruning can reduce the search space and speed up the search efficiency, the quality of the final decision by the search tree is largely dependent on the evaluation of the node value [3]. Traditionally, people can set up evaluation function based on the prior experience of games, but it is often difficult to guarantee the optimality of evaluation functions in this way. In computer science and operations research, a genetic algorithm (GA) is a metaheuristic inspired by the process of natural selection that belongs to the larger class of evolutionary algorithms (EA). Genetic algorithms are commonly used to generate high-quality solutions to optimization and search problems by relying on biologically inspired operators such as mutation, crossover and selection. Thus, I use genetic algorithm to help me get a high-quality evaluation function to improve the performance of the Minimax Search Algorithm.
## D. Problem Applications
In game theory and economic theory, a zero-sum game is a mathematical representation of a situation in which an advantage that is won by one of two sides is lost by the other. If the total gains of the participants are added up, and the total losses are subtracted, they will sum to zero. Zero-sum game is very common in our life, such as poker, chess or reversi in games, futures contracts and options in the market, etc., which are widely used [4]. In this project, we implement the AI algorithm of Reversed Reversi Game to help us understand the zero-sum game, learn the method to solve the zero-sum game problem, and finally choose the optimal strategy under a variety of choices.
